you got to be hungry man i mean i know
how i felt aspiring to be something
before anybody ever knew
you know i know what it felt like to to
be in the gym by myself when nobody
cared
i wanted to be successful so bad i
wanted to be a basketball player
so bad every part of me you know
was was going to put everything into
that
you can't be satisfied even when i was
the best player that doesn't mean you
stopped working you know we can get
content so easily sometimes and
when i say these things these are these
are coming from my own experiences
[Music]
i hope you guys enjoy the episode
brought to you by our sponsor blinkist
go to blinkist.com impact theory to get
25 percent off a blinkist premium
membership
and a seven-day free trial all right
enjoy the episode
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory
i am here with entrepreneur
writer music executive and one of the
greatest nba stars of all time
chris bosh chris welcome to the show
thank you very much man thank you for
having me dude i am super excited to
have you
i was blown away by your book letters to
a young athlete
i actually think it's going to go down
as one of the great books on
leadership if i'm honest i think that it
really does transcend
um i'm not an athlete not in the
slightest my man
but reading that book i was like this is
directly applicable to
everything that i do as well so whether
you're an entrepreneur or somebody
that's into music or
just you're trying to be great at
anything um i really thought that it was
exceptional what made you want to to
write that book
man you know
for those who don't know i used to play
basketball
professionally for up to 13 years in my
14th year
or my 13th year at the midway in part of
my 13th year
i had blood clots and this was for the
second time the first time the year
before that
i had a pretty tragic instance where i
was in the hospital i needed surgery i
had a pulmonary embolism
you know i'm lucky to be alive um the
next year
they you know we found a blood clot in
my cab
and pretty much when that happens you
know
there's really no fix for that and i i
pretty much had to retire
so it's pretty it's like being thrown
out of a car going
140. and you know
yeah emotionally for sure and i kind of
had to
really just reflect on where i was where
i
am in my life because i had to go from
being a full-time athlete
playing in the nba road games
appearances
to pretty much being a full-time dad
instantly i have five children you know
so
it's very busy you know being a
full-time husband having to learn
and reinvent myself and in that i really
really reflected on my career i never
had not not only my career but
when i say career i mean my basketball
life that's a bet
a better way to put it because that's
all i did and i didn't understand that's
all i did until it wasn't there anymore
and i just got to a point where in my
reflection you know you go through
everything in between you know the highs
and the lows
and i struggled you know i struggled uh
emotionally dealing with
with everything but this has been kind
of define everything before me
like you struggle with who am i what am
i going to do do i have value that kind
of thing or was it something different
well more so like what am i gonna do um
i've always tried to encourage people
and read material
uh to help people out what they're gonna
do and then i'm in that situation
and i don't have any excuses uh usually
the
is uh for someone to make a better
living that's the drive
for them right uh or money or something
like that
neither one of those uh came into play
so i really really had to dig
deep and really find out what i love
doing
and you know really just reflect on
everything that happened uh throughout
my life
conversations with coaches um
you know uh situations overcoming and
you know of course adversity that's
always a classic one
uh but really sitting down and
dissecting all of those moments in my
career
that i felt really really propelled me
to where i
am today and being appreciative for that
so this book is pretty much like a
momento
if you will to not only the younger
generation but all generations who
want to better themselves uh want to
learn more
and who want to be great and want to win
i think that's uh
that's an important attitude to have and
and i wanted to put it in some sort of
book form where people
you know could really really take it in
and digest it
yeah i had a similar feeling when i read
phil jackson's 11 rings so i'm actually
this is probably just a horrendous thing
to confess to you but i'm not a sports
guy like i don't
pay attention to sports or anything um
yeah
but somebody had told me that no no
don't think of phil jackson's book as
being about
sports think of it as being about
leadership and so i read it and i was
like
this is one of the most extraordinary
books i've ever read in my life
like this guy is a philosopher as much
as he is yeah
um a coach and when i got your book i
didn't know what to expect obviously i i
recognized the title as sort of a wink
to some of the other letters too
um yeah but to see you so thoroughly
uh take the soul of what those other but
like you even reference um
rainier rilke if i i think that's his
first name
letter poet and um
you really poured yourself into this in
a way that it feels like an instruction
manual for greatness
and that's how i felt and it felt like
the birth of a philosopher and i don't
know if that's
sort of where you want to go with this
like you're you're and i'm not kidding
at all your resume is
really interesting but the way that
you're able to
dissect what it takes to be great and i
want to start with the notion of talent
is not enough
that was one of the things i found super
profound in the book
what does it mean that talent isn't
enough and how
do you achieve greatness if you can't
just rely on talent
well it's kind of one of those um things
you know and i'm so glad that you know
we're able to have this conversation
because
i feel that i'm one of those guys to
kind of bridge the gap
uh to help people understand the game of
basketball a little more
and not to not to say that somebody's
going to be a die hard right away but
there are simple kind of connections in
there that i think were really
you know i've talked to people and and
seen the light come on and say oh okay
you know that's how it is
you know usually um we always had a
saying
uh in the nba if you play hard you give
yourself a chance
and in my in my career i had so many
instances i've had
hundreds of teammates and
in that you always um i have an
interesting
scenario where you see the difference
between
talent and hard work of course if you're
a talented hard worker
then if if you put the talent with the
hard work then then then now we're
talking
but i've seen so many times and so many
people
not reach their potential only because
they didn't want to do the work
the talent was there um i think even
sometimes the love for the game or the
love for
the field that they're doing is there
but you have to combine it
with with that um toughness and hard
work and you know there's no cheating
the process
um you know i think sometimes what is
the process yes
um you know doing things every day so
i always like to work backwards so for
instance if i'm
a basketball player and i want to be a
better shooter well
i say okay i want to be a better shooter
that is my goal
what do i have to do daily
to ensure that i can become a better
shooter
some people would say well you need a
teacher that's not necessarily so you
have to sometimes
go and seek the information put in the
work that could be a part of
uh one of the days of the process to
becoming a better shooter
um you know so i always try to make sure
that
i put my the work in myself only because
you see how so many people
you know leave their talent on the table
so to speak i mean
you know and sometimes that can be a
it's a gift and a curse right you can be
the most talented person in the room
that'll automatically
bring your work ethic down a little bit
and that's something you have to fight
but i think sometimes especially in
younger people
you think it's going to last forever you
think it's always going to be here and i
don't have to try so hard
i've seen so many people just be hard
workers
and then you know that gives them a seat
at the table just by their work ethic
we're not even talking about talent
right now you know but when you when you
combine that talent with the hard work i
think that's when you get the lighter
fuel
uh to get you where you need to go one
of the things you
talk about so one you reference david
goggins which you had me at hello with
that one
uh and so blown away by him and his
notion of when you think that you're
completely broken and spent you're
actually only 40
of the way there you talk about ignoring
your empty light
what is that what does that mean um
you know when we were in the playoffs
when i
got to the point where we could compete
for a championship as a team
uh with the miami heat back it's crazy
to say 10 years ago
you find yourself in a place where every
game is difficult
and i always like to use i always said
the phrase man it feels like i'm
scratching the depths of my soul and
then after i scratch that
i gotta get more i gotta dig more
because
in the heat of competition uh when you
really really want something
you're gonna be tired sometimes and
there might be a loose ball that you
have to get and you can't really think
about how tired you are
and in the daily practice of pushing
yourself
you have to know how far you can go and
with that said like a lot of people will
just stop
only because uh you know their caps are
burning if they're exercising or
you're doing some pull-ups you might you
could get two more
you know um one of the best exercises
that helped me
uh in my adolescence and really in my
training for the league as well
was running a mile i had this coach ken
roberson up in dallas
we would have to run a mile almo pretty
much three times a week and it was so
hard because by that after that first
lap
you get that that little person on your
shoulder saying
please just stop can you please stop
so that we could just stop and in
getting through that um sometimes you
find out like wow i didn't
feel like doing it today but i ran my
best time
or i kept going and i had more left in
the tank than what i thought
you know there's that nice balance
between um
pushing yourself and not you know too
much you don't want to go too far
but i think sometimes with human beings
we we don't want to put we don't want to
limit our mind
or our body you know you don't want to
put limitations on it you want to push
the limitations
uh daily not nothing extreme are you
are you saying nothing extreme you don't
want to go too far because you don't
want
moms coming after you because like you
can't quote goggins over here
who like all but kills himself and by
the way this is what i loved about your
book man
is you really like you get the nuance of
the situation
and so i get it look and i hedge
sometimes too with my language
but i want to i want to get beyond the
hedge we'll just
covet or caveat caveat right like of
course you don't want people hurting
themselves
but in the book like you really go into
what it takes to be
great you want to play for real like now
we're going to have to go
beyond the pain we have to go beyond the
suffering you have to dig deep and you
talk about
finding a why talk to me about that like
when you're running that mile
and you're on lap three and the voice
that started at lap one is now
shrieking how how do you keep going like
how do you chris bosh keep going
i think um you you take it one one step
at a time i hate to be cliche
but you take it one sec step at a time
and you know you push through it
you find a way to get through it
whatever you do don't stop
you know that was always the daily thing
that i told myself because
afterwards you don't feel too good
especially when you know
that you left something on the table and
sometimes in success
especially if you ever see a
championship situation with athletes
when you're training for those moments
when you hit that wall of being tired
that's when you're starting because
essentially
you know what i learned from competing
against the best
was that every single game we're
knocking on that door i mean you're
going to be the most exhausted
that you've ever been in your life and
there's still going to be things that
you have to accomplish
so you have to still be sound in body
and in mind
and you still have to remember what the
game plan is what am i supposed to be
doing right now
because when you find and through that
is finding the why
so i always wanted to be successful i
you know i wanted nothing more
um than to be a professional basketball
player
and be successful and win games and be
like michael jordan kobe bryant
why did that matter to you i was a child
when i was a child
uh it was just so fascinating it was
captivating um
my my dad and his friends would be all
around the tv
watching basketball watching the game
and then
you know you see uh guys that you
identify with
guys that looked like me and i was
already playing basketball with my
friends on the playground
um as i was discovering what it was but
once i saw that
you know how much of you know people
looked up to these athletes and
and how fun it was or or or the how fun
the thought would be to play
basketball professionally i mean i was
just hooked after that and i couldn't
get enough
yeah it's interesting like when i think
about greatness and what it really
takes to get there and you think about
why
i have a hypothesis because i've thought
a lot about this about
why i'm so driven right so i never have
to work another day in my life and yet i
show up every day like my
life depends on building the
next gigantic company right
and so i think a lot about evolution
and like why the human mind is the way
the human mind is so every species has a
choice do you pre-program everything
or do you basically give potential right
and then
based on your circumstances what
potential do you need to develop into
skill set in order to survive
now nature incentivizes with pleasure
and pain quite frankly the things that
it wants to ensure that you do
right so if it wants to make sure that
you have babies sex is pretty amazing
right so that it gets it's in the end
right
now with with the sort of grand why of
things and this is actually what you say
in the book is your why it was one of
the things i was like yes
you said i want to see how much of my
potential i can actually manifest
and that to me lines up with evolution
if evolution
shows with the human animal the strategy
of
i'm not going to pre-program very much
so now i need to make sure
that you get this internal reward for
actually seeing how much potential you
can turn into skills
and getting people to understand that
this is why i'm obsessed with your book
getting people to understand this like
you open the book saying i you've got a
lot of voices in your head
right now i get it you at one point you
said i could practically feel you
falling asleep
but what you were saying was so
important because
when people are human you will have a
void in your life
if you don't translate potential into
skills and
so few people really like dig deep
ignore the empty light
scrape the bottom of their soul find
more somehow some way
take the time to build a why and think
about like
why in this moment when it hurts and it
sucks am i going to keep going
and absolutely that to me is that that
is
the money what do you think about when
you think about your kids like i don't
have kids so i never have to cross this
bridge
but if i had kids i'd be real honest you
gotta you have to be willing to break
yourself in half
like you just have to for your own
sanity
you do and you know one of the
challenges with that
is finding not only finding your why but
finding that thing that you love to do
and you know
so you know for me i was so lucky to
have basketball
you know to love basketball because
there's actually programs there's teams
um especially the communities that we
were growing up in there weren't many
resources
so to actually have something to do to
keep me out of trouble before and after
school that was great
i always empathize um you know with the
young people who
don't have uh extracurricular activities
that
one are not are in their communities or
schools or
something they're not interested in um i
always try to challenge people not know
you know of course we find a while we
get to that point
but find that thing you love doing
because when you get to the why
you know having a love for something
from the beginning
that's a great why that's a great start
right there and then you can build on
top of that because if you're not
really loving what you're doing and then
when it comes to the why you won't
you'll kind of fall short a little bit
or you'll struggle um
and more so you know i want to challenge
people to think about those things you
know why yeah why are you doing this
my children ask me why every day
[Laughter]
and you know just getting to that point
of really thinking deeply and that's one
of the things that uh
we say within the book as well um to
think deeply and you
you know you you can get pretty deep
pretty quick you know i want to do x
well why because of why why because of z
and then you know sometimes we'll get to
a point where we can't even answer that
question
but the question is the starting point
and and the love is the starting point
to get there
so when you get to those dog days
of uh the day you feel that you can't do
it or you don't
feel like doing it or you just want to
go away
the love of it if you don't do anything
you know
if you if you're doing something you
don't love you'll probably stop
you know or when it's time to push
yourself a little further
you probably you might not scrape
everything you might look at it but you
might not scrape the depths
you're gonna have to challenge yourself
because you will get challenged by life
by a game by business by
entrepreneurship
um there are always going to be
challenges to overcome and
you know really to be quite frank i get
you know it is disappointing to hear
people
you know fall short because they said oh
well you know it was hard or
i got something happened or
you know it's always a description of
some obstacle
you know and um i always tried to make
sure that
i had my why intact but also
to have the love first you know because
if you don't love it first then
you know you're not gonna get very far
what do you think when people blame
a bad call or coaching or
whatever what do you what do you think
about that so i played
um you know like i say hundreds of
teammates and you have those teammates
or that friend
or that person that's always it's always
something else right
um and eventually i got to the point
where
you know i said okay you can still
complain
about the referees or the situation or
my friend
or some sabotage but did you win or lose
at the end of the day
that's pretty much what it got down to
because you know
and then one thing that i noticed the
same people complain about
the referees it's a great point but just
you know it's a part of the game
and if you continue to deflect off of
something else you're never going to get
better
because it's some extremity that's
you know keeping you from from doing
what you're supposed to do so
and you know that was one of the things
that i always tried to embody i would
never even think about the rest
it's a passionate game you'll get into
it sometimes they've got a job to do
just like you they don't want to mess
anything up
you know they want a fair game to be
played and
you know you know you can't think too
much like that like that's the
all about me me me syndrome right the
breaths
made the bad call and that's why we lost
it has nothing to you know it has
nothing to do with your mistakes
you sure you know if you externalize you
don't you never look within
and you you'll never get to the point
where
you know you're thinking like how can i
what what could i have done better
to ensure that we could have been
successful and what will i do better
next time
that's the better thought because if
you're always blaming it on something
else
you know it's uh it's always going to be
there because there's always going to be
referees there's always going to be
challenges
all right so you've had a lot of
teammates played against a lot of people
you're a student of the game you've seen
people come
go if you had to pinpoint
like the sort of main theme or a couple
themes that
really trip people up and stop them from
becoming great
what are those things
oh man i would definitely say
uh one of the words i always like to use
is perseverance
um just like we were kind of uh you know
uh talking about
you know pushing yourself and the david
goggins um
reference you know you have to have
perseverance because you know
like i said before not every day you're
gonna feel like doing what you do
you're not gonna feel good every day
every day
your goal will not be accomplished like
that
you know we're gonna spend a lot more
days working than we are celebrating
and that's if you have massive
celebrations that's at the pinnacle of
success
or at least what i think it is right but
you know
eventually you're going to have to have
that perseverance to be able to have the
toughness to keep going
you know i've seen so many people stop
you know and then the best analogy was
kind of you have you ever
seen the races where the guy or the girl
is running and they
look at the crowd and they're doing this
somebody's right behind them and catches
them
that's kind of like the analogy that i
like to use because i've seen
so many people stop short and i mean
they'll be right there on the precipice
of getting drafted in the nba
and well the coach and this conference
isn't what it used to be it's
back to blaming other things just
because challenges arose
and i would say the other one is
probably teamwork
you know i learned so much just about
working
with others you know trying to be
successful and that
in a lot of people what a lot of people
don't even understand about
a championship situation in any
situation i believe is
and especially in basketball was
like like a hidden thing is like the
wives the team of wives how much
they put in you know we always said hey
everybody's got to be all in
so the wives will make sure they're hey
at the games
we're going to get the boys together
after the game and we're going to have
dinner and
we're going to have play dates with the
kids you know we're going to do
everything necessary
as a part of this team so that they
can um can do the best job that they can
do and then even within that
um you know working together on the
court uh with my ex-teammates
i mean it's just so many facets to the
game
um that i had to learn but putting the
team
first over myself gave me the ultimate
success
and it's not easy but when you're
working together with people um
when when you throw that no look pass or
or you make that schedule and you know
that person is going to be there
and they're going to do that job is no
better feeling
especially when you're going after
something that's hard to go for
yeah i think it's worth going into that
a little bit for basketball fans i think
they'll be pretty aware that you are
uh one of the things that you're famous
for
is your ability to figure out what the
team needs
and then to deliver on that but put it
in context so you're
you're killing it in toronto you're the
star of the team
um and you now have an opportunity to
go to the miami heat to be part of the
sort of dream team i mean this was like
the first time a real
like super team was put together um
and first year you guys kind of have
issues
but then what was it that you realized
for that second season when you guys
come back and just light the world on
fire
i think the bravery that you have to
have like i was saying perseverance
earlier
i really learned what that meant back
then i really learned
after uh coming up short um losing in
the championship in uh 2011.
you know that internal voice you know
the good one
pretty much told me okay well that's
what it feels like
and we really do have to get up pick
ourselves up and get
back on the horse um and it was you know
it's devastating um
you know going through a losing
situation when you don't think you're
going to lose
especially when it's on national tv but
one thing that i learned was
okay that's that's what it feels like
that's what that's what we're dealing
with here so the next time i'm
scratching
you know scratching the depths and i'm
pushing myself when i'm by myself in
practice
i'm going to push a little more because
now i know
what the real pain is you know i thought
i knew what pain is when i was working
out
i thought i knew what pain is when i
thought i was pushing myself
but then when you play 82 games plus
preseason
and you know off season workouts just to
get knocked off the mountaintop it hurts
tremendously and one thing that did was
taught me how to bounce back
but you know it toughened us up a little
bit and we were okay
and ready and willing to put the correct
work in
and when it's time to push each other or
pull each other through situations when
it gets hard
we're willing to do it because we know
that you know
it doesn't really feel good so
later on if you think you know if you
think you heard now try losing right
that's all i see though all
all over gems everywhere so i always try
to you know keep that in mind and
in pursuing a title again and going
after it
we just want it to be you know stern and
hard and make sure we're going after our
goal and if we're not
um putting something in that day
toward the greater good of accomplishing
a championship that we're cheating
ourselves
everyone there's no way to build an
empowering mindset or get ahead in
business without
constantly learning and accessing new
information and today i want to share
with you guys my secret weapon in the
battle to learn new things and get ahead
blinkist blinkist is for anyone who
cares about learning but doesn't have a
lot of time
blinkus takes the key ideas and insights
from over 4
000 non-fiction bestsellers in more than
27 categories
and gathers them together in 15-minute
text and audio explainers
that help you understand more about the
core ideas use the blinks to get into a
topic quickly
find new topics to grow from or figure
out which books
you want to spend more time reading and
listening to more deeply
also they've teamed up with popular
podcast creators to blink
those for you too so you can get to the
heart of a podcast episode
fast you can use blinkist's shortcast to
quickly catch
up on podcast episodes you've missed
with high quality audio you can jump
right in on the go during your commute
at the gym around the house or even
download to listen
offline 15 million people are already
using blinkist to broaden their
knowledge in 27 non-fiction categories
including self-improvement personal
growth management
leadership and mindfulness and happiness
two books from their library that i've
listened to and
highly recommend are start with why by
simon sinek
and the power of habit by charles duhigg
right now blinkist has a special offer
just for our audience
go to blinkist.com impact theory to
start your free
7-day trial and get 25
off a blinkist premium membership that's
spelled
b-l-i-n-k-i-s-t
blinkist.com impact theory to get 25
off a blinkist premium membership and a
seven day free trial
all right guys take care and be
legendary
talk to me about having the um
i'm not sure what word you would use
actually but the willingness to go from
being the star to being one of three
stars
how did you deal with that i mean at a
minimum it's gonna
sort of cut your start time you know
into a third
and i would say that that seems the most
dangerous thing when you think about
you know putting a team together with
big personalities huge talents
um you know the three of you are all if
not already in the hall of fame
certainly will be in the hall of fame
so um how do you manage that and how do
you
find the teamwork necessary to win
well i mean it's a learning curve let me
uh
i'll be honest there was uh there was a
learning curve i mean you know
one of the things that uh that was
important for me like i said before was
winning i always just wanted to be
successful
and uh the opportunity came up to
uh join another team and
it all sounded great three stars and it
was great of course
eventually but in the beginning you
don't really think about the work it was
just all good times
and we found out that it does
take you know uh um some thinking
but most importantly it took sacrifice
you know um sometimes the ego can really
really get in the way of
of yourself being successful because you
want to
average more points or you want more
money or more notoriety or
i guess a better position or promotion
quote unquote you know and and it can
kind of backfire sometimes
um you can either be you know an
individual on
on their own or the part of uh the
greater good
that's uh that's a great team in our
case you know for me
i was uh the thing that really helped me
out was learning how to sacrifice
uh for some things of course i was known
as a scorer
i wanted to score a lot of points i
wanted to get a lot of rebounds
and with that comes a lot of notoriety
but
eventually i have to understand that
okay these two guys are really good too
and if we're
top five or ten players in the world
they're in the upper half and i had to
realize that and understand that and you
know what
for if it was best for the team because
that allowed if they operate
then that allowed everyone else to work
to better
work together a little better because
within the system
that we needed that we made up as a team
in order
for us to uh run efficiently and
properly
you know that was necessary and i had to
get over
whatever was in my head of of what
success was because at the end of the
day
i was still able um to continue to be a
perennial all-star
but this time i'm playing in the
postseason i'm playing
when it's winning time i'm playing when
when when
i was always sitting on the couch uh
watching
in the summertime and so for me i just
you know you find a way to sacrifice and
get better at it and you know find out
what the team needs before you find out
what you needed and after that
it kind of works out a little better man
that's
it's one of those things you you make it
sound
not necessarily easy but so many people
fall apart with it they really can't do
that
and this is why my obsession is getting
people to understand
everything starts with the goal and if
your goal is to be a rock star then you
make a different choice than you made
and you don't have the trophies to show
for it you probably have a lot of
frustration and sort of unmet potential
but if your goal is i know what i want
is to win
championships and you know i'm here to
to
have a legacy and to build a dynasty and
to see your jersey which of course you
eventually do see your jersey raised
into the rafters where it will stay
forever i mean that's
nuts man but most people cannot get that
kind of clarity
and i'm curious yeah was that the
ability to start with a goal is that
what
has allowed you now because you're so
prolific now
outside of basketball is that part of
like okay wait i just have to
sort of change my goal but i'm gonna do
that same thing of knowing what i'm
aiming at knowing why i'm aiming at it
and then being willing to put in the
work
oh yeah absolutely and that's that's
definitely what this book is about
um i
i had we had challenges writing the book
about
overcoming challenges you know so you
know that's always going to be
the sticking point and a lot of people
what you what you say reminded me of how
some people dealt it like i said you
know they'll quit
because it got hard or just because
something isn't coming to
them right away um they'll let up a
little bit
uh kobe um he's known for saying
something
uh that was quite profound um
he said you have to you know jumping on
what you love what you do every day you
have to love what you do every day
because those days that are hard those
days that
suck that's where the magic is you go do
it and you get your work in anyway
because that's where you're going to
find out who you are that's where
things are going to continue to happen
and you have to just love putting in the
daily work
because that's another token in the bank
if you will
um if you're showing up you know
striving uh towards your goal and you
know yeah
you know rockstar or nba championship or
or whatever i've i've always had
challenges i'm not
and that's another thing when people get
the challenges they stop you know it's
not
just going to come to you there's those
eureka moments usually come in the
moments of frustration
[Laughter]
but you have to just stick with it you
have to you have to really really
believe in what you're doing
and you have to have faith that it's
going to work out but you got to keep
putting the work in because if you don't
it's not going to come to you and it's
just not
um you know going to fall in your lap
and sometimes when you know that
all right i'm going through it right now
this is tough
let's just let's just take an inch
forward let's go
inch forward today that'll be better
than going backward you don't want to go
back but
i think sometimes just man just just
knowing that it's going to be a
challenge
i think sometimes that's a that's a good
thing to know
we know okay i want to this is my goal
boy it's going to be a lot of obstacles
in there so let me get in shape
let me get a shape in my mind and my
body to be able to navigate to get
to where i need to get to how do you
think about
when you're playing basketball it's easy
to know what to aim at we've got a
championship
everything is sort of centered around
making the steps very clear
now post basketball i know you've you've
been very honest that it was
a struggle certainly for a hot minute um
but in terms of how many things you have
going on now you didn't just stay
in basketball you're not trying to be a
scout or you know um
a coach like you've you've gone
completely in a different direction with
the writing obviously
and i've already been just very clear
about my feelings about how well the
book came out
but uh also being a music executive
actually making music
are you fearless in terms of starting
from the bottom again like how do you
wrap your head around like going from
being dude one of the greatest people to
ever do what you do in like
extraordinarily
public ways to now going oh and i'm also
going to go demolish these
things over here
but i'm going to start at the bottom
starting from the bottom now we're here
right you know
that's a part of the process like we
were talking about the process earlier
i had to understand the process
what what what parts of those processes
are right it's easy to say well do the
process when you're on top
one of the things that music taught me
and that was another one of those
questions that i answered well what am i
gonna do well what do i love
next thing you know i had a guitar in my
hand okay
am i good of course not
my fingers are bleeding yes they are but
you just you know that was me pushing
myself in that situation and a part of
pushing yourself is
understanding that you're a beginner
it's okay
one of the things i don't like is when
people say oh yeah
you got to learn a language when you're
young
that doesn't make any sense you know i
talk
to my kids and they're five and they
know spanish but
you know not it's not like that yet
a lot of adults and you know kids
sometimes too
going through that process of being
beginner a beginner is a frustrating
process
and if someone is feeling frustrated i
say good
good job that means you're that means
you're working that means you're doing
something
you know a lot of people will think that
they're supposed to
play the guitar like led zeppelin as
soon as they pick it up
you know and it's just not gonna happen
it does not happen like that you cannot
cheat the process you have to go
from a beginner to advanced beginner
intermediate and so on and so forth
but you know you have to be okay with
knowing
that like you know the word of the day
challenges right are going to arise and
you're going to feel
like you suck and all of these things
that is totally normal i think sometimes
people need to know that that feeling is
normal oh man you threw your
guitar down yesterday and stormed off
man i did that
i did that last week you know people
just have to be okay
if you want to really go for something
and start over you have to be okay with
being a beginner and
you know i've had no problem with that
i've tried to really really
dive into it and put myself you know
submerge myself into
uh being a beginner and to love you know
love the struggle
love not knowing what's gonna happen
next not knowing how i'm going to
overcome this next thing because i'm
gonna figure it out eventually because
i'm not gonna quit
do you have and maybe what you just said
is it but do you have
magic phrases or anything to deal with
self-doubt like
i know you've said you had self-doubt in
basketball and it's like jesus if you
are going to doubt yourself in
basketball like what are the rest of us
left to do with virtually anything that
we touch
you know it's visualizing it's
visualized one thing that helped me
all the time and i think it kind of
doesn't get as much credit
uh with a lot of people is how much i
visualized
anytime i had self-doubt i would just
dream of just man
well when i'm holding that trophy man
when i get it and that kept me going
because
that's the goal it doesn't matter how
i'm feeling right now or
if i can do it and when you have
self-doubt i mean you can only go one of
two ways
there's no mech you know there's no in
between there's either
i can't do it or i'm gonna do it even if
i come up
short i still want to have that
confidence
you know i still want to go after uh
what i want as opposed to
just giving up and saying ah well the
referees yeah
and and just go home i would rather go
down trying as opposed to
you know just just not trying at all
talk to me about
confidence so when you're having
self-doubt obviously you're not feeling
very confident
is part of visualizing just sort of
steeping yourself
in living that success so you can
reignite the confidence or
how do you think about that well i think
confidence comes from work ethic
um you know first and foremost you you
can't be confident and not
do anything you know uh that would be uh
you know considered poolery
but i always had confidence from
my work you know the work i put into the
game i remember uh me and lebron had a
conversation
he had an amazing uh game seven to to
win our
second championship and and it was just
me and him in the locker room afterwards
and i remember asking him i said man
why how did you you know he was shooting
he wasn't shooting the ball well
all series we all had our own dots that
we were dealing with
and i mean he came out and had an
incredible night
and i said man what what you know why'd
you
what happened he said man i put too much
work in
i put too much work in so when you know
if you put the work in
you know when you get to those
situations that can give you confidence
if you're frightened
that's fine if you're if you're scared
that's fine
you eventually have to rise to the
occasion you know that's a that's a big
point that's a word that i always say
rise to the occasion because you know
when you practice you have to put
yourself in those moments continuously
over and over and over so that when they
come
you just do what you've done you do what
you visualize that's what i use
uh visualization i always use that as
well to kind of put myself in situations
before they happen hopefully
and you know to to to give myself
confidence to say hey i've been here
before
you know i know what this is going to be
like i'm going to give my best
this is why i put the work in time after
time
day after day night after night so when
and if that situation arises i can trust
myself
i know that i can be confident because i
know without a doubt
that i've done what needs to be done i'm
confident and you can be brave about
that
and go into it and be confident yeah
there's a
awesome bruce lee quote that i love
where he said you want to kick
until you don't think kick you just kick
and yeah i always thought that that
makes all the sense in the world
and it's one of those right it's a great
quote there's another one i forget who
said it but
i don't fear the man who's practiced 10
000 kicks once
i fear the man who's practiced one kick
10 000 times
and it's like there really is and you go
into this in the book i'd actually love
to get your thoughts on it
the notion of you have to get your mind
and your body
in the right place
yeah what what's the importance there
how do we do it
i think i think exercise has a lot to do
with that you know there i truly do
believe there is a mind-body connection
i don't know the word for it i think
what appropriate section or something
like that but
um you know there is i think you know
when you exercise when you use your body
that is an intelligent
it's an intelligence that we have and if
we're not using it
then we're probably it's we're not using
as much as
of our brain as we can i think some a
lot of those
things will naturally come through
exercise because we're human beings
right
we were talking about evolution earlier
we used to run and catch our food
you know now we can relax and just push
a button and it comes right to us
you know so we have to make sure that
we're continuing to stay active
um i think when when you activate the
body when you move the body and make
sure it's flexible and strong
who knows what could happen you know
that's just a good uh habit to have
um and there have been moments to this
you know to to get a little deeper i
guess there have been moments in
in games or working out or instances
where
you ever had one of those moments where
you do something like how did i do that
your brain just kind of takes over that
always kind of
continuously happened with me in
basketball
quite a bit and and i would try to
reenact the same thing and i couldn't do
it
another time you know there there is
just this magic that happens when you
you know when you do a lot of repetition
in any given subject
and it's it's time to flow
you can trust that it will happen if
that's what you do
and and i just love that and it's
indescribable
uh people have to experience it for
themselves
but you definitely gotta get active i
think um
that that could be tremendously
beneficial in some kind of way
whether that's a walk whether that's
push-ups sit-ups
you know that's that's a part of pushing
yourself
um that's important get that heartbeat
and get that blood flowing
and then you know i don't know just
something happens
um you know whether that's creatively or
or or just thought provoking but i just
really do feel when you use
use the body and move the body and
combine that with
um actually analyzing and thinking
man it um it really it really can be
very special
one of the things that i liked about the
book is the way that you talk about
criticism
when you're in the public eye the way
that you were and people get so
passionate about their teams uh how did
you
deal with criticism because not all
criticism is coming from hecklers like
you know sometimes yeah it's actually
really useful feedback
no absolutely some people's job is to
criticize right
um you know you know i found myself in a
unique position um
joining miami coming from toronto um
there is a difference and there was a
difference between canada and the united
states
um especially with the coverage that we
were getting
um and you know we did come together in
quite a boisterous way
so that was a lot of that was
well said the parade before we won right
so you know me looking back i i do
understand
and especially how passionate people get
about sports
i understand those things now uh but
going through it at the time i mean
you know you don't understand it i i
just wanna
i had to eventually learn that just
because i want something doesn't mean
everybody else wants something
and just because i've made up in my mind
that this is what i'm gonna go after
everybody is not going to agree with it
and you know i i was not even that
nature i
mentioned that as well i probably i
thought everybody was going to be
excited like oh man this is going to be
like
the early 2000 lakers or the 90s
early mid and late 90s bulls man people
are going to be so
excited to watch us play not so much the
case it's sports
you know and i kind of let my euphoria
in my uh my naivety tay or however you
say it
um i let it get the best of me pretty
much i started
looking over and i started caring about
what people think and you know it can
get
you know in the media it can get quite
nasty sometimes and the minute you look
and you give it attention oh man it gets
louder
and i found myself kind of in this
whirlwind of
of doubt because someone else would put
it there and so that's one of the things
that i had to learn i had to
listen to myself do my preparation get
my mental preparation in
for the game and what i need to do of
course the media always is going to have
their job to do they
they have to feed it's a business as
well right people have uh kids to feed
and you know i took it as that and
that's just what it is but
the the thing that really helped me was
just knowing that it can't help me or
hurt me and if you're to criticize me
that's cool
criticize me winning
[Laughter]
you know and criticize me being
successful criticize
me going to the gym again even a
win lose or draw i'm back at the gym
twice a day
as a matter of fact because i'm
successful i'm reaching that criticize
that so
i let it fuel me but you know i let it
fuel me in the right way
if it was uh some criticized criticism
i would i would look at it you know
objectively and
and i think there's magic in there too
you want to learn
from it from something like that you
just don't want to have your head in the
clouds and think you don't have anything
to work on
you do want to take bits and pieces but
that's all it is
bits and pieces and then you take that
you have to be motivated you have to go
back in and
continue getting the reps in
one of the things you talk about in the
book that's related to criticism you
said
for a brief period you played angry and
you said okay that that wasn't going to
be the way right it's just too hard to
stay angry all the time and you got to
find joy
dark energy though has has power
in it how do you leverage that how do
you
think or maybe you don't allow yourself
that at all um but one thing i found is
that i try to spend at least 80 percent
of my time focus on the beautiful things
i'm trying to do with my life the lives
i'm trying to touch the people i'm
trying to help
but sometimes like they say fatigue
makes cowards of us all i think it was
vince lombardi that said that
and when i'm just spent man and i'm
i'm well past empty i've scraped the
bottom of my soul and i'm still
like i need something to reinvigorate me
in those very acute moments i go to
thinking about the people that want me
to fail
the people that are excited that i might
fail
and yeah while i try not to spend much
time there
it's really powerful
no it you know what it is um and
you know it's different strokes for
different folks right whatever works for
you
and i have used that as well there are
so many different methods and yeah you
don't want to
just not look at it at all and just
totally be
oblivious i i used to use that uh
for energy as well anytime i love it
when somebody tells me i can't do
something
you know that's that's cool like
challenge game on you know what i mean
don't put don't don't project your
feelings of how you feel about yourself
onto me i can do it you know and that
always got me fired up too and
especially in athletics
that's that's definitely one of the huge
huge motivators that i think a lot of
leaders and coaches use
is that yeah they think you know they
think you can't do it yeah that can fire
you up
and you need that sometimes especially
on those days when you don't want to get
out of bed
um i remember in particular uh it was
that next year and
and we were just working so hard in the
summer time and
we didn't know if basketball has come
back because it was a lockout situation
and
i remember one particular day i was so
tired
and my wife she didn't wake me up but
like i woke up
and she saw me get up and not get up
physically but just wake up
and i was like yeah babe i don't think
i'm going in the gym today
say yo we got to win a championship
you're supposed to win a championship
right
i said ah that's a good one times might
be
you know sometimes might be hey you wake
up i'm sore
they knew i'd be sore today they don't
think i'm going today so i'm getting up
you know just
whatever gets you in that spirit you
know because you do have to have that
fire and that spirit to be able to go
after something you definitely can't
attack the mountain without a running
start i do believe in that
i do think you do have to have some fire
and some intensity
so in getting that you use whatever fuel
you can as long as you're
positive and working toward that goal
like i keep saying
man and if and if something if somebody
says something you didn't like and that
fires you up man
use it use it all day every day talk to
me about
hunger that that might have been my
favorite part of the book
you got to be hungry man i mean i wanted
i i know how i felt going
i know how i felt aspiring to be
something before anybody ever knew
you know i know what it felt like to to
be in the gym by myself when nobody
cared
you know and i wanted to be successful
so bad i wanted to be a basketball
player
so bad every part of me you know
was was going to put everything into
that
you have you know you can't be satisfied
even when i was good
in high school or middle school or if
i'm finally on varsity you might have
finally
you might be a young athlete and finally
got on varsity
and you're man you're the best player
that doesn't mean you're satisfied that
doesn't mean you
stop working you know we can get content
so
easily sometimes and and when i say
these things these are these are coming
from my own experiences um you know we
can get intent
i mean uh content sometimes and we'll
just kind of
stop we don't show up every day anymore
it's you know okay
we're doing a three-day week this week
then you start to see slippage and then
you start to
see see you coming up short time after
time and trying to reach something
you know uh uh for me the hunger
part of it you you got to be willing to
do those things
within reason that nobody else is
willing to do
you know i'm i'm gonna man um i saw this
one speech man i
you've had him on your show the
gentleman's name is slipping my mind
um but he had a uh i saw he was a
prolific speaker he was talking about
being hungry
he was talking about this story about
being a dj
and he just kept coming back kept coming
back that reminded me so much about
my basketball career before it became a
career
you know i had coaches tell me i pick
you up every day i said okay
they got tired of me man that hunger
because i was so hungry okay it doesn't
matter if we were successful the night
before
and i had a great game i just wanted i'm
seeing
success i want to do more and i first
started seeing that when i was a
sophomore
going into my sophomore year there was a
tournament
you i think i read i wrote about it
quickly in the um
in the book as well if i'm not mistaken
and i wanted it was this
trophy it was an mvp trophy that i
wanted so bad i had just started really
seriously lifting weights
i was working out more and i wanted that
trophy so bad and i went after it
because
you know the hunger in me just wouldn't
let me give up we were losing the game
when i was having these thoughts
and we end up winning and then the
trophy's in my room and i'm just sitting
there looking at it like wow
i want i want something else i'm not
satisfied i want to do better i want to
be more successful
i want to help my teammates even more
you know
let's get to practice earlier let's put
up
more shots you know if if you want to go
after something
you have to be you have to have that
hunger in that fight
because that's going to give you that
edge to overcome stuff
dude i i believe in that so much uh
hunger hunger is really everything like
if you've got that then you might be
willing to push through to run the miles
to do the work to
go for that loose ball to play guitar
until your fingers bleed
um i am super excited to see where
your hunger takes you now man i think
that
given what you've accomplished i
wouldn't necessarily think that the next
chapter was going to be
exciting but given what you wrote i
i am convinced that um you will play
whatever you do to the fullest
where can people follow you and go along
for the ride with you
oh yeah absolutely at chris bosh on
twitter at chris bosh on
instagram uh official chris bosh
on facebook chris bosh on tick tock
we're everywhere man
and um if uh if people are ever curious
i have a newsletter as well it's called
the last
chip it's at thelastship.com
love it dude thank you so much for
coming on the show thank you for putting
so much energy into the book it
really is an extraordinary effort um i
cannot wait
wait for people to get a hold of it
amazing man well
thank you again so much for coming on
the show and guys speaking of things
that are far
broader if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends
be legendary take care to me anger is a
reaction to what somebody else
said to you it creates an emotion
all right the dark side
turns your anger into controlled rage
now you're in control
now how long can you stay in control